ONTOLOGY SOURCE REFERENCE
Term Source Name	"NCI"	""	"e.g. OBI"	"OBI"	
Term Source File	""	""	""	""	
Term Source Version	""	""	""	""	
Term Source Description	""	""	""	""	
INVESTIGATION
Investigation Identifier	""
Investigation Title	"Investigation"
Investigation Description	""
Investigation Submission Date	""
Investigation Public Release Date	""
Comment [Created with configuration]	""
Comment [Last Opened With Configuration]	"isaconfigPChem1.6"
Comment [Created With Configuration]	"C:\Users\dowl271\Documents\ISA-Tab\isaconfigPChem1.6"
INVESTIGATION PUBLICATIONS
Investigation PubMed ID	""
Investigation Publication DOI	""
Investigation Publication Author List	""
Investigation Publication Title	""
Investigation Publication Status	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Source REF	""
INVESTIGATION CONTACTS
Investigation Person Last Name	""
Investigation Person First Name	""
Investigation Person Mid Initials	""
Investigation Person Email	""
Investigation Person Phone	""
Investigation Person Fax	""
Investigation Person Address	""
Investigation Person Affiliation	""
Investigation Person Roles	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Source REF	""
STUDY
Study Identifier	"(Zheng,Gunner-2009)electrochemistry_hemes"
Study Title	"Analysis of the electrochemistry of hemes with E_m_s spanning 800 mV"
Study Description	"The free energy of heme reduction in different proteins is found to vary over more than 18 kcal/mol. It is a challenge to determine how proteins manage to achieve this enormous range of E(m)s with a single type of redox cofactor. Proteins containing 141 unique hemes of a-, b-, and c-type, with bis-His, His-Met, and aquo-His ligation were calculated using Multi-Conformation Continuum Electrostatics (MCCE). The experimental E(m)s range over 800 mV from -350 mV in cytochrome c(3) to 450 mV in cytochrome c peroxidase (vs. SHE). The quantitative analysis of the factors that modulate heme electrochemistry includes the interactions of the heme with its ligands, the solvent, the protein backbone, and sidechains. MCCE calculated E(m)s are in good agreement with measured values. Using no free parameters the slope of the line comparing calculated and experimental E(m)s is 0.73 (R(2) = 0.90), showing the method accounts for 73% of the observed E(m) range. Adding a +160 mV correction to the His-Met c-type hemes yields a slope of 0.97 (R(2) = 0.93). With the correction 65% of the hemes have an absolute error smaller than 60 mV and 92% are within 120 mV. The overview of heme proteins with known structures and E(m)s shows both the lowest and highest potential hemes are c-type, whereas the b-type hemes are found in the middle E(m) range. In solution, bis-His ligation lowers the E(m) by approximately 205 mV relative to hemes with His-Met ligands. The bis-His, aquo-His, and His-Met ligated b-type hemes all cluster about E(m)s which are approximately 200 mV more positive in protein than in water. In contrast, the low potential bis-His c-type hemes are shifted little from in solution, whereas the high potential His-Met c-type hemes are raised by approximately 300 mV from solution. The analysis shows that no single type of interaction can be identified as the most important in setting heme electrochemistry in proteins. For example, the loss of solvation (reaction field) energy, which raises the E(m), has been suggested to be a major factor in tuning in situ E(m)s. However, the calculated solvation energy vs. experimental E(m) shows a slope of 0.2 and R(2) of 0.5 thus correlates weakly with E(m)s. All other individual interactions show even less correlation with E(m). However the sum of these terms does reproduce the range of observed E(m)s. Therefore, different proteins use different aspects of their structures to modulate the in situ heme electrochemistry. This study also shows that the calculated E(m)s are relatively insensitive to different heme partial charges and to the protein dielectric constant used in the simulation."
Study Submission Date	"2008-06-17"
Study Public Release Date	"2008-09-05"
Study File Name	"s_(Zheng,Gunner-2009)electrochemistry_hemes.txt"
STUDY DESIGN DESCRIPTORS
Study Design Type	""
Study Design Type Term Accession Number	""
Study Design Type Term Source REF	""
STUDY PUBLICATIONS
Study PubMed ID	""
Study Publication DOI	"10.1002/prot.22282"
Study Publication Author List	"Zheng, Zhong
Gunner, M. R."
Study Publication Title	"Analysis of the electrochemistry of hemes with E_m_s spanning 800 mV"
Study Publication Status	"Protiens 2009"
Study Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Study Publication Status Term Source REF	""
STUDY FACTORS
Study Factor Name	""
Study Factor Type	""
Study Factor Type Term Accession Number	""
Study Factor Type Term Source REF	""
STUDY ASSAYS
Study Assay File Name	""
Study Assay Measurement Type	""
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Accession Number	""
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Source REF	""
Study Assay Technology Type	""
Study Assay Technology Type Term Accession Number	""
Study Assay Technology Type Term Source REF	""
Study Assay Technology Platform	""
STUDY PROTOCOLS
Study Protocol Name	"sample collection"
Study Protocol Type	"sample collection"
Study Protocol Type Term Accession Number	""
Study Protocol Type Term Source REF	""
Study Protocol Description	""
Study Protocol URI	""
Study Protocol Version	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Accession Number	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Source REF	""
Study Protocol Components Name	""
Study Protocol Components Type	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Accession Number	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Source REF	""
STUDY CONTACTS
Study Person Last Name	"Gunner"
Study Person First Name	"MR"
Study Person Mid Initials	""
Study Person Email	"gunner@sci.ccny.cuny.edu"
Study Person Phone	""
Study Person Fax	""
Study Person Address	"Department of Physics
City College of New York
New York, NY"
Study Person Affiliation	"CUNY"
Study Person Roles	"cooresponding author"
Study Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Study Person Roles Term Source REF	""
